# stockmarketpredictor

To begin with, I needed data from companies over an extended period of time regarding their previous stock prices. After doing research I found that out of “Moving Average”, “Linear Regression”, “k-Nearest Neighbors”, “Auto ARIMA”, and “Prophet”; “Long Short Term Memory (LSTM)” was the most efficient method to go with. Luckily Yahoo Finance provides a downloadable CSV file based off of historical data from a company. I chose to predict adjusted closing prices of Vanguard Total Stock Market ETF (VTI). 

The LSTM are a type of recurrent neural network that is capable of learning order dependence in sequence prediction problems. LSTM have been used to process data like images, speech, and video. I first uploaded the data to my Google Drive account and mounted it to my Colab notebook. This made it easy to access the information from the CSV file. I split the dataset into 60% training, 20% validation, and 20% test. I used root mean square error (RMSE) and mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) to evaluate the effectiveness of LSTM. Our LSTM has three gates: the update gate, forget gate, and output gate. After tuning the parameters, I used graphs all throughout my program to show the progression of how the model was trained. Towards the end you can see how close the test data was to the predictions using LSTM. Although at this time, this technique won’t be 100% accurate in determining what the exact price will be in following days, it does a pretty good job at predicting the trends and what direction the prices will go in. In general I think there is a lot of potential in predicting stock market prices.
